Introduction to Hooks (#1545)
enkidevs/curriculum: javascript/react/introduction-to-hooks/why-were-hooks-needed.md

---
author: kapnobatai136

levels:

  - medium
  
aspects:

  - new

  - workout

  - deep

type: normal

category: must-know

links:
  - '[render-props](https://reactjs.org/docs/render-props.html){documentation}'
  - '[higher-order-components](https://reactjs.org/docs/higher-order-components.html){documentation}'

---

# Why were hooks needed?

---
## Content

Hooks represent a new addition to React, and they allow you to use state or other useful features without using class components.

> Hooks were created to solve a number of issues that were encountered in the past five years since React was created.

Reviewer: Make this sentence a bit better at standing the test of time:

```suggestion
Hooks were created to solve a number of issues that were encountered in the first five years since React was created.
```

> In React, there is no direct way to "attach" reusable behavior to a component (such as connecting to a store). The patterns that emerged from the need of reusable behavior were either using [render props](https://reactjs.org/docs/render-props.html) or using [higher-order components](https://reactjs.org/docs/higher-order-components.html) (or HOCs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In React, there is no built-in way to "attach" reusable behavior to a component (such as connecting to a store). The patterns that emerged to solve this need were [render props](https://reactjs.org/docs/render-props.html) and [higher-order components](https://reactjs.org/docs/higher-order-components.html) (or HOCs).
```

> A `render prop` is nothing more than a function that a component uses to know what to render.

Reviewer: Could make it a bit more succinct:

```suggestion
A `render prop` is a function that a component uses to know what to render.
```

```jsx
<MyComponent
  render={person => (
    <p>Hello {person.name}</p>

>   )}

Reviewer: Add a note here that another version of the "render props" pattern is to pass a function as `children`:

```jsx
<MyComponent>
  {person => (
    <p>Hello {person.name}</p>
  )}
</MyComponent>
```

/>
```

> A higher-order component is a function that takes a component and returns a new component:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A higher-order component is a function that takes a component and returns a new component that includes the reusable behavior
```

```js
const EnhancedComponent = higherOrderComponent(
  WrappedComponent
);
```

> Although you can use these patterns to create reusable behavior, most of the time they require component restructuring. This can make your code hard to follow because your components will be surrounded by wrappers, consumers, higher-order components, render props and any other abstractions that you make.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you can use these patterns to create reusable behavior, most of the time they require component restructuring. This can make your code more verbose and harder to follow because your components will be surrounded by wrappers, consumers, higher-order components, render props and other, potentially noisy, abstractions.
```
